Register externally-managed files via the client (#661)
bluesky/tiled: docs/source/how-to/register.md

- This can place a lot of load on a filesystem, which can be an issue for
  networked file systems in particular.

When these limitations are reached, read on for a more sophisticated approach.

## Production-Scale Approach

Start a Tiled server.

```
tiled serve catalog <DATABASE_URI> -r <DIRECTORY> [--public] [--api-key <SECRET>]
```

- The `<DATABASE_URI>` may be a SQLite file like `catalog.db` or a PostgreSQL
  URI like `postgres+asyncpg://<USERNAME>:<PASSWORD>:<HOST>/<DATABASE>`.
- The `<DIRECTORY>` instructs Tiled to enable an authorized clients to register
  files in that directory to be served. For security reasons, nothing outside
  of that directory will be possible to register. (Multiple `-r` arguments may
  be used.)
- If an `--api-key` is not passed, a secure random key will be generated and
  printed at server startup.

### Simple cases

As in the Quickstart, this walks the directory tree, identifies recognized
formats, and registers the metadata, structure, and filepaths.

```
tiled register http://localhost:8000 [--api-key <SECRET>] <DIRECTORY>
```

### Complex cases

Sometimes it is necessary to take more manual control of this registration

> process. Using the Python client,

Reviewer: Can we add sentence here?

```
Sometimes it is necessary to take more manual control of this registration
process. For example, if you want to add a `spec` or custom `metadata` to the data set, you will want to do that programmatically usign the Tiled client.

Author: I missed this specific suggest but I'm glad I capture the gist of it.

# Register Content in Tiled

The usage `tiled serve directory ...` is mostly for demos and small-scale use.
For more sophisticated control over this process, see

## Quickstart

> The tutorial {doc}`../how-to/register` demonstrates the usage:

Reviewer 2: There's some strange self-referencing here...probably from merging earlier edits,

Author: fixed

> For more sophisticated control over this process, see
> 
> ## Quickstart
> 
> The tutorial {doc}`../how-to/register` demonstrates the usage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following guide demonstrate more sophisticated control over this process.

## Quickstart

```

```
tiled serve directory [--watch] [--public] [--api-key <SECRET>] <DIRECTORY>
```

which is a shorthand for:

> 1. Walk a directory tree, identifying formats it recognizes, ingesting their

Reviewer 2: I find this easier to read...

```suggestion
1. Walk a directory tree to identify formats it recognizes and then ingest their
```

   metadata, structure, and filepaths into a database for efficient search and
   random access.
2. Start a server that uses that data.
3. Optionally, watch the directory tree for changes, and synchronizing them to
   the data.

### Limitations of `tiled serve directory ...`

The shorthand is great for quickly getting started, but it has numerous
limitations.

- Tiled walks the entire directory at server startup. This can be slow.
- Tiled creates an ephemeral database (SQLite in a temporary directory)
  just for this process. That work is discarded when the server shuts down.

> - One database per server not horizontally scalable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- One database per server is not horizontally scalable.
```
